
(47:46)
Brian: "I watched most of your interview with Lex Freedman is really interesting. You said you grew up in a very patriarchal, I guess household?"
Aya: "Yeah."
Brian: "And, uh, to quote you, you said women were subordinate to men in regards to making decisions when married. And so I was curious on this...does anybody kind of agree with her when it comes to like should women be subordinate to men when married?"
Candace: "I do believe that men should be the leader in most situations and relationships but when I look at marriage specifically...I do think that there needs to be a leader in the relationship and typically should be the man."
Brian: "Does anybody agree with that? Or do you guys think...I don't know what the s word means subordinate."
Andrew: "Yeah, um, submissive basically. Underneath I guess you could say. Subordination would be an underling. So like, if you're at work, you got a boss, he's the boss, you're the subordinate."
Brian: "Thank you. So who agrees with Candace? Like should the man be the leader, or do you guys view things more 50/50?"

------

(54:01)
Andrew: "So when you say I don't know what should means I actually don't believe you in this context. I think you know exactly what it means by should..."
Aya: "This is the way that I talk all the time and sort of the question that I would ask anytime somebody asks me if somebody should do anything..."
Andrew: "Yeah and I just explained to you that there's a distinction here."
Aya: "I still don't understand what should means in this context."
Andrew: "So what it should mean in any context—"
Aya: "Well it's usually dependent on something, right? Like, should I go to the store, like, you're—"
Andrew: "So dependent on this context, what do you think should means?"
Aya: "Like, my guess is probably there's some implicit 'to be happy' kind of thing, but I don't know if this is true."
Andrew: "Well then we'll go with that. I would like to check though, like is that what we mean? Because if so then I can answer."
Brian: "Can you even repeat what the question was?"
Aya: "But it's also different because sometimes people argue the purpose of like some types of social structures is not to be happy but rather to have like a flourishing society or something."
Brian: "Like I'm fine getting into semantics with you when it comes to should but can you repeat what the question even was?"
Andrew: "Should men lead their wives or some variation on that."
Brian: "So he's asking from your worldview, whatever that is, believe you say that you're a rationalist so from whatever your rational worldview is, the should sense here is ought they or ought they not lead wives for what—"
Aya: "I can't get over the what purpose, like for happiness? Uh, I think probably a lot of people would be happier if their husbands led them, this seems true. Okay? I don't think I would be that much happier but I am not normal."
Andrew: "So then they should—should they or should they not? Ought they or ought they not for the purpose of happiness?"
Aya: "You sound very confident in the things that you say but I'm not sure that makes you more right."
Andrew: "It doesn't. It doesn't make you more right because you don't understand the things I say either, so I would just like an answer when you're talking about ought or ought not, ought they or ought they not for the purpose of happiness."
Aya: "I can't answer. I mean maybe I'm very stupid and maybe you could explain this to me but uh, you're saying ought is a common—"
Andrew: "I use really small words."
Aya: "Yeah, you—we can use very small baby words for me, uh, because my small little brain has difficulty sometimes, but when you're saying, uh, if should, ought they lead their wives, um, do you mean that there's like a general sort of way that the world is good if it is and bad if it isn't and you're referring to like a general sense of goodness?"
Andrew: "No, I'm not, I'm not inferring or making an implication for anything. This is an asking from the worldview of you who is not me. Whatever your worldview is, who is not me, from your worldview that is not mine ought men lead their wives?"
Aya: "Uh, I'm trying to communicate my view and my view is something like I think that some people would be happier if their husbands led them and some people would be sadder if their husbands led them. I'm not sure that there's such a thing as an overarching goodness."
Andrew: "Okay so sometimes—"
Aya: "Thank you, appreciate that."
Brian: "Thanks for clarifying. Well, that was an interesting exchange."

------

(57:25)
Brian: "Who gets final say so in a relationship or marriage whatever—let's say there's some sort of impasse there is no resolution, you can't come, you know, you want one thing, he wants the other. Who should get final say? Whoever pays—hold on. Um, so and I think Andrew sometimes you refer to this as a threshold breaker I think, but, uh, who do you think gets final say or would you, I guess either in your own dynamics who should get final say? What do you think starting with you, Aya?"
Aya: "Like it depends on the thing. I'm confused. Like if you're disagreeing over like where should we move, sure, uh, I don't know, probably you should bet on it or like see who would want to pay more given that you had the money or make prediction markets to figure out, I don't know, I don't think I operate by these norms but I know a lot of people do."
Brian: "Sure. What do you think..."

------

(59:08)
Andrew: "Do you want to provide like maybe a good example of like a impasse sort of situation that could arise in like a relationship or marriage, just for use as an example here?"
Andrew: "Well, I mean a very common one is just money. So the idea of how money is used and spent in a relationship versus not spent in a relationship is one of the number one disagreements that men and women have. So the idea is if you can't come to an agreement on how money is spent or what school the kid should go to which might infer spending money as well, right, ultimately there's only two of you, right, so either a third party has to break this threshold barrier or one of you ultimately has to be the decider otherwise how do you, uh, essentially how do you, how do you come to an agreement if both of you disagree? Like how, how is that done if one person ultimately doesn't end up with the final say?"
Candace: [answers, rest of the panel discusses]
Andrew: [cuts back in] "I'm not really sure that any of that would matter though. So I understand what your—it's what's being acted on right now, right? So, like, whether or not that's right or that's helpful for a healthy relationship, like, that's a whole different conversation but what is happening is women are..."
Candace: [answers; panel continues]
Andrew: "I'm not sure it's actually pertinent to what I'm saying though. So I understand what your position is, you're saying, hey look, um, you know women already have lots of household responsibilities and so they're in a decision-making role already. We're not really discussing that though."
Candace: [answers]
Andrew: "Well, but they're executing the decision at the behest of the husband though, right? So this is the consent of the husband essentially is going into this decision-making meeting. She's doing the day-to-day activities because he's saying you should do these day-to-day activities, right. He doesn't have any disagreement with that. It's when there's disagreement within that, who becomes the arbiter then? How do we, how do we find this threshold breaker between two people for who makes the determination or who has the ultimate say?"

------
